- [Instructor] Let's walk through the steps
in the development workflow to better understand
how it fits into an end-to-end delivery process.
To do this, we'll return back to the basic delivery process
that we explored in the last lesson.
Although it's technically not part of the pipeline,
a developer's workflow plays an important role
in the delivery process because within it,
we can build in some practices that improve
the quality of code before it ever enters the pipeline.
The changes a developer introduces into the pipeline
start off as small stories for new features,
which are planned with Agile project management tools
like Jira or Version One.
After being assigned a story,
a developer begins writing the code for it
in an IDE like Eclipse or IntelliJ.
IDEs make writing code more efficient by providing features
like auto-complete and tools for refactoring.
At this point in the process,
developers are frequently compiling
and running the application locally
as they perform their work with the help of build tools
like Gradle or Maven.
Here, the dependency management features
within these build tools
are used to pull in other libraries
through their integration with the IDE.
Within their IDE, developers can also add plugins
to analyze their source code as it's being written.
These tools can enforce style guidelines
or detect common programming errors,
which help improve code quality.
Most Java IDEs will also provide support for JUnit,
which is a unit testing framework that developers can use
to ensure their new code functions properly.
Before checking into source control,
developers should scan their code
and run the unit test suite to prevent any problems
from making their way into the repository.
After validating their changes,
developers should submit a pull request
so that it can be reviewed by their team
before it's merged into a shared branch in the repository.
When practicing continuous delivery,
developers are cycling through this workflow
multiple times per day to deliver small changes
to the code base, which helps avoid complicated merges
towards the end of a project.
By following these best practices in their workflow,
developers can improve the quality of their code
before it ever enters the pipeline.